The sidebar is built on a flexible cassette system, where various features (messages, contacts etc.) can coordinate with one another to produce a set of controls that update as users make choices. The data is displayed in the main part of the window (e..g choose a contact all messages between you and that contact are shown in a list to the right. A heat map control is also used, graphically displaying the number of messages exchanged per month. Clicking on a month jumps the message list to that point in time.

This is working much better than a previous architecture, where a central contact area was permanently paired with a lift and right sidebar, any of which could do anything. Now, the left sidebar contains controls, and controls can be anything. Right now it allows the user to choose contacts, stray email and phone handles, and messages.  But next steps will be to use the sidebar and the flexible cassette system to organize the many settings a user might want to address in such a way that, rather than presenting one overarching list, the user can navigate down a focused tree showing only what  he needs to see at one time.

My question: one feature I like is to show a global message timeline in the sidebar, containing all the messages a user has ever exchanged with anybody. By its nature (100,000 messages in my database) this feature is more suited to searching than browsing. One use case might be "show me all messages that refer to "air fryer", have an attachment, and contain the word "receipt". The list can easily be reduced to matching messages. But I'm thinking that the user might want to dive deeper to view the surrounding chat context of a message that looks promising. 

However, then we lose focus on the search results. I'm thinking that if the user clicks the "focus in" button on a search result, a card will appear somewhere containing some descriptive text -- the current search criteria, a clipping of the message text, some message metadata. This can be placed somewhere so that it and other results of interest can be called up at any time and, more importantly, dismissed to return the list to the previous state. 

The question is now where to put them. I like the simplicity of the sidebar/main content  area layout, but the right sidebar would seem the logical place to put these focus vignettes. Perhaps they could be tagged with keywords so that, at any time in the future, entering one or more keywords in the right sidebar header will pull up the corresponding vignettes, so that, once you've found the air fryer receipt message you don't have to go through all the steps of the search again