CURRENT STATUS

email and phone chat handles are matched to AddressBook contacts where 
possible during the import stage. This leaves many stray handles whose
chats and messagets cannot be accessed through the contact based UI 
elements that have been developed so far.

Stray handles can be:

(1) email and phone numbers belonging to individuals who are in the AddressBook
but which themselves have not been added to the contact's AddressBook entry

(2) email and phone numbers of known entities who happen not to have
been entered into the AddressBook.

(3) email and phone numbers of unknown entities who have consequently not
been entered into the AddressBook. This would include brief communications
such as one-off two-factor authentication texts, package delivery notifications, 
AI chats moved off a web page to iMessage

(4) Spam


DESIRED ENDPOINTS

-- spam messages are permanently hidden. There can be an escape hatch mechanism 
to accommodate a future scenario where, for legal or other reasons, the user 
needs to review them. Otherwise, it should be a very simple matter for the user
to smash the SPAM button and never see a reference again

-- otherwise, the user can review the handle's messages and sort them into one
of three categories:

 (1) identified -- the user assigns the handle a name which will label that
 handle for reference the next time stray handles are reviewed

 (2) identified and valuable -- the user assigns the handle a name and designates
 it as something that should be treated as a contact -- it shows up in the contact
 picker etc.

 (3) unidentified

 (4) identified spam

 MECHANISM FOR review

 -- the user picks an unfamiliar phone number or email address from a sidebar
 list. The list entry gives the handle text as well as metadata such as message
 total, date of first/last etc. There should be the opportunity to sort the list
 by message total as well as filter the list for suspected spam detected during
 the import processs

 -- clicking on the handle displays all its associated messages in the center
 panel, ordered by date or id and ASC or DESC order.

 -- depending on what the user identifies based on the message content, they can
 then opt to classify the handle as 1, 2, 3, or 4


 PERSISTENCE

 All of the above will obviously reside in the overlay database.